<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Specialisms</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Specialisms</h2>
    <p>Our survival depends upon a number of different factors such as access to food, shelter, air and water etc. Furthermore, we require a constant supply of these raw materials in order to meet the minimum requirements or our bodies’ continued functioning. While a certain investment of time, energy and skill will allow us to meet this baseline, an increased investment will improve our quality of life; a fully furnished house is more comfortable to live in than a cave, a fine meal more pleasant to eat than some raw roots and berries. The more time we dedicate to a particular skill, the greater our aptitude for it will become. However, we do not have limitless time or energy, and thus will be unable to achieve mastery of every skill (jack of all trades, master of none).</p>
    <p>In western society, we try and overcome this by specialising at a certain skill. If we dedicate all of our energies to mastering a certain discipline instead of many, we can then exchange our knowledge with that of others who have mastered complimentary skills. If an expert cook and builder were to work together they could both enjoy exceptional meals and houses beyond what their individual abilities would be able to provide; scale this up to cover every skill every person could possibly need and, at least in theory, everyone’s quality of life will be the same as if they were each experts in every field.</p>
    <p>In practice this system has several shortcomings.  As we continue to push back the boundaries of our knowledge and understanding, we increasingly encounter thresholds were it becomes impossible for a single individual to master all of a given subject. Branching specialisms must then be created to cover their own increasingly narrow scopes. Whereas millennia ago we would have consulted a healer, now there are brains surgeons, radiologists, dieticians and physiotherapists etc.</p>
  </body>
</html>
