<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Lorem Ipsum</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Lorem Ipsum</h2>
    <p>Since the 1500s the printing and typesetting industry has used a set of standard dummy text to mock-up page layouts and demonstrate fonts. Lorem ipsum, as it is known, is not actually random text, but a scrambled version of several sections from a treatise on the theory of ethics written by Cicero in 45 BC.</p>
    <p>In "de Finibus Bonorum et Malorum"  Cicero said that <q>No one rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure itself, because it is pleasure, but because those who do not know how to pursue pleasure rationally encounter consequences that are extremely painful. Nor again is there anyone who loves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise, except to obtain some advantage from it?</q></p>
    <p>As living organisms, we obviously (except in very rare circumstances) seek to preserve our own existence; but as Cicero wrote over 2000 years ago, given the choice between pain or pleasure, the vast majority of people will choose pleasure. For all but the simplest of organisms, mere survival is not sufficient. If we are given the option of living a life full of happiness and contentment, or strife and suffering, we will invariably choose the former.</p>
    <p>In order to adequately meet the needs of its members, therefore, any society must work to secure them pleasure, while at the same time shielding them from pain. Anything less than this, and it will not have delivered upon any promises beyond simple evolution. This is not to promote mindless hedonism, but simply <q>who has any right to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain that produces no resultant pleasure?</q></p>
    <p>For the rest of this piece I will be working on the assumption that the best possible society is one that inflicts the least amount of suffering on the smallest number of people. Hopefully, this is a sentiment with which most of my readers will agree.</p>
  </body>
</html>
