<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Growth</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Growth</h2>
    <p>This increase in expertise necessitates a similar growth in the population. If a single person focusses all of their energies on perfecting one facet of a task, then many people will be required to complete the task as a whole. Whereas before a hovel might have been erected by a single peasant, now a whole army of contractors is required to construct a villa.</p>
    <p>Furthermore, while the quality of work a single individual can achieve is steadily increasing, (barring improvements in technology) the amount will remain more or less unchanged. As the number of people who specialize in areas that are not essential to survival increases, therefore, so too will the demand for the skills of those who do; triggering yet more growth.</p>
    <p>This feedback-loop is never ending. The larger our population becomes, the more it will need to grow in order to support itself, and the faster it must do so to avoid collapse.</p>
    <p>Continuous, never-ending growth is simply not sustainable. Compared to a single individual the planet’s surface is almost unimaginably vast, but it is finite; and, therefore, so too is the amount of resources we can extract from it. Furthermore, utilizing all of this space to its maximum potential is not a simple matter, as the conditions suitable to the production of one resource are often detrimental to those of another. Increasing the yields in one area must then become a balancing act to prevent damaging all others.</p>
    <p>The more people there are, the more likely we are to max-out production, both regionally, and globally. If our needs are not adequately met, then suddenly those who provide us with luxuries will become obstacles to our own survival. Instead of being our collaborators, our peers will have become our competitors; a conflict of interests caused by us being unable to all live the lifestyles to which we have become accustomed.</p>
  </body>
</html>
